# World-of-Water-Swift-Playground
### About
This project was created in early 2018 as an entry into Apple's WWDC 2018 Scholarship program. Though I did not acquire the scholarship, I learned a lot about developing in the Apple environnment, and hope to apply these newly acquired Swift skills to a fully featured application published on the App Store soon! The application is certainly not the same level of quality as a fully featured, published application, though I am happy with the results given the time constraint in which it was developed. Note that due to the file structure of Swift Playgrounds and the aforementioned short development period, the code is frankly a bit of a mess! I did my best to document the program so that it should still be relatively easy to understand how all the components work together.
### Technical Details
* What follows is a segment from the written portion of the scholarship application, in which I was prompted to explain my thought process behind the technical choices I made developing the Swift Playground.

The user interface for the playground was designed through the use of individual SpriteKit and SceneKit nodes. Being that my target audience for the playground is children, it was key that the playground did everything to keep their attention on the screen, and keep them learning through a game-like environment. This design philosophy is evident throughout the playground, such as the falling drops of water on the shower page, or the animated diagram of the desalination process. This is the primary reason that SpriteKit and SceneKit were used to create the user interface, as opposed to a dedicated UI framework (such as UIKit for iOS). 
	Since the playground displays large amounts of text, it was important that I structured the code in a manner suitable for reusability. Developing a standard visual style for sub screens increased the visual cohesiveness of the pages, and made it easy to generate additional sub screens without over cluttering each page’s class. For the SpriteKit pages, I was careful to design distinct levels of depth between elements of the screen. SKEffectNodes were key in this endeavour, which allowed me to focus the camera on the foreground objects. 
	My primary inspiration for the user interface’s depth was iOS’ design guidelines. I wanted each zoom on the map page and opening of a modal in the research and development page to feel smooth and satisfying, and for each element to make sense as if they were laid out on a three dimensional plane.  I used SceneKit to connect each SpriteKit page together in a visually entertaining and logically cohesive way. By theming the playground as a tour of rooms in a house, it feels like a cohesive unit rather than a few seemingly dissimilar interactive screens. Users are more compelled to “look around” the house to learn about the world water crisis through the playground’s enjoyable, visually pleasing setting. 
